# Team Mates- 
- Vatsal Verma (vave2712@colorado.edu)
- Ch Mohammad Ibrahim (ch.ibrahim@colorado.edu) (110575176)
- Ashwath Ramakrishnan (asra1099@colorado.edu)


# CSCI-5828-HW2

Homework 2 - No Silver Bullet

Review the material in Lectures 1 and 2 and read the No Silver Bullet article available on https://software-engineer-workshop.initialcapacity.io/ website. Based on that review and your own experience, answer the questions below.

### Define the term *essential difficulties* as it is used by Brooks. Provide background and context with your answer and at least one example of an essential difficulty.
- Brooks uses the term ‘essential difficulties’ to describe challenges that come with software engineering. He argues these challenges are ‘essential’ because they come from the process of creating software that is based on specification, design and testing of conceptual constructs. Since errors are possible and common with conceptual constructs, that makes their specification, design and testing challenging. However, these concepts form the essence of what the software is and becomes, and therefore they are necessary. Hence, the term ‘essential difficulties’. The reason for the definition and discussion of essential difficulties is that Brooks wants to emphasize how there is no silver bullet to solve all these challenges in software engineering, and that they will continue to be tough problems to solve as they form the fundamentals of software. 

- One example of these essential difficulties could be how different software for autonomous vehicles is from software for storing financial data. For autonomous vehicles, the accuracy and speed of the software are extremely important while for financial data storage, persistence and space might be most important. This example illustrates the level of complexity of both of these unique kinds of software and how highly specialized custom software is required to solve different problems that have different challenges, different requirements and different goals and how there is no ‘silver bullet’ or single solution to solve both tasks.

### Define the term *accidental difficulties* as it is used by Brooks. Provide background and context with your answer and at least one example of an accidental difficulty.
- According to  Brooks the term "accidental difficulties" refers to challenges that are not innate in the nature of software development, but are instead generated by the specific implementation or development procedures employed. These issues are not assured, but they can be managed or avoided via improved development process planning, design, and management.

The best example of this can be:

- Scope creep occurs when the requirements of a project change, making it hard to predict the time and resources needed. To avoid this, have a clear project plan with specific goals, regularly review it, and have good communication and collaboration among all parties involved in the project.

### List and briefly describe the four essential difficulties of developing software systems that Brooks identifies. Provide additional examples of each type of the four essential difficulties.
- The four essential difficulties of developing software systems that Brooks identified are:
- Complexity
- Changeability 
- Consistency
- Concealment

Let's explain the following in deep:
- Complexity - Software systems are complex due to the convolution interrelationships between their components, the huge range of design options, and the size of their code bases. Let's take an example: consider building an operating system(OS) that includes a kernel, drivers, and a user interface as a duotone.

- Changeability - By definition, software systems(SS) are reconciling, and modifications to one component may have unpredicted consequences for other members. When a new feature is added to an existing software system, it may give errors and make other parts conflict.

- Consistency - It can be challenging to maintain consistency throughout the several components of a software system because doing so requires teamwork and agreement among developers. As an illustration, ensuring that data structures, APIs, and database frameworks are uniform across numerous microservices in a distributed system.

- Concealmeat - It is challenging to understand and predict the behavior of software systems since their basic structure and behavior are not immediately evident. An example of debugging complex multi-threaded software with many thread interactions.


### Define what Brooks means by a *silver bullet* and reconstruct his argument as to why he believes there is no silver bullet for software engineering. In lecture, software engineering's relationship to computer science was described by analogy by discussing the differences between a chemist (chemistry) and a chemical  engineer (chemical engineering). Define software engineering and its relationship to computer science; make use of the chemist vs. chemical engineer analogy when answering this question.

By a silver bullet, Dr. Fred Brooks means anything that solves or reduces all of the inherent difficulties of software engineering by some margin. The essential difficulties as discussed by him are the inherent complexity, conformity, changeability, and invisibility of the software engineering domain. 

With that, he argues that there exists no such "Silver Bullet". He uses the silver bullet concept metaphorically to emphasize that despite the advances in the field there is no "one" magic solution that can reduce the inherent complexities of software engineering.

The chemist and chemical engineers analogy was used to highlight the difference in the professions of computer scientists and software engineers, where the word "engineer" is mostly responsible for this difference. Just like how a chemist focuses on developing new chemicals or materials either by solving complex chemical equations and a chemical engineer, in turn, is responsible for putting these new materials to use in a bomb or a facial cream the relationship between a computer scientist and a software engineer is almost the same. A computer scientist might write a new sorting algorithm and prove its superiority, a software engineer, on the other hand, will be responsible for implementing this algorithm in let's say Java, integrating it into existing applications while ensuring nothing breaks.

Computer science deals with the study of algorithms, programming languages, computer architecture, and theoretical foundations of computing. While software engineering is concerned with the practical aspects of software development, including project management, requirements analysis, design, testing, and maintenance.

### In the lecture, we discussed the importance of the following concepts to software engineers: abstractions, conversations, specification, translation, and iteration. Define each of these concepts as they are related to software engineering and discuss their importance.
- Abstractions are defined as a method of solving problems by breaking them down into understandable concepts or terms. This is important when discussing software engineering problems because it helps narrow down a complex challenge that is defined broadly into something actionable. For instance, breaking down a database scale issue in terms of actual available space, data types and sizes to provide something actionable.  
- Conversations with people are useful to understand different aspects of software engineering such as conversations with domain experts and users to understand the problem, or with other developers to understand code or documentation, or conversations to discuss aspects of the software engineering process such as testing or design. Each conversation helps with ideas and knowledge sharing to solve the problem.

- Specifying details like system requirements, design, project life cycle, deliverables and more are part of the software engineering process. It is important because it makes the software engineering work precise and clear, while not leaving anything as vague. So the developers know exactly what they need to achieve.

- Since abstraction is one vital component used to break down problems, it also becomes necessary to translate these problems and solutions from one form to another as each software or software problem might be represented as its own abstraction or set of structures. This is translation, another concept used by software engineers to compare and work across different software engineering problems, abstractions and solutions.

- Iteration is the process of working, where in software engineering a solution is broken down into steps, and they are worked on until the solution is reached as each step is implemented or solved one by one.

 
 
You will use this assignment to practice your git, Markdown, and GitHub skills. Create a repo on your local machine and answer the questions above by creating a document called homework02.md. Use the various features of Markdown that we reviewed in lecture when
answering the questions.
